Let's open our Bibles to today's text, 1st Thessalonians chapter 2, and let's read verse 8 in its entirety.
So having tender affection for you, we were determined to impart to you not only the good news of God,
but also our very selves, because you became so beloved to us.
In our discussion this morning, we're going to address two things.
Why did Paul love the Thessalonians so much, and then what efforts did he go to to show it?
The question why did Paul love the Thessalonians might seem a little odd,
but notice what the Insight book says about Godly love? It says this.
Godly love is not a quality that one has without knowing why.
It goes on to say, Godly love cannot exist in the person apart from knowledge and service of God,
or apart from meditation and appreciation.
So we don't love someone and not know why. There are reasons.
There are many reasons why we loved Jehovah, but that same principle applies to those of our brotherhood.
So why did Paul love the Thessalonians?
Well, he and Silas in the year 50 CE were used to bring the good news to the Thessalonians,
and a number of Jews and many Greek proselytes became disciples.
So on one hand, Paul knew that Jehovah was drawing these people to him,
and if Jehovah loved them, Paul should certainly love them.
But beyond that, there was this instructor-teacher relationship, a very close bond.
But the thing that also made Paul love them even more
was what those brothers had to go through, learning and staying in the truth.
In Acts chapter 17, it describes the hostility that the Jews brought upon those in Thessalonica.
It was so dangerous that Paul and Silas had to flee the city.
That persecution continued after Paul and Silas were gone,
and then one or perhaps more of their congregation fell asleep in death.
And it caused great sorrow.
So Paul sent Timothy to find out how are the brothers doing?
They were doing quite well.
In fact, let's look at first Thessalonians chapter 1,
and we'll look at some of the key verses beginning in verse 3,
first Thessalonians 1, 3, the good report.
For we continually remember your faithful work, your loving labor, and your endurance.
And then look at verse 6, and you became imitators of us and of the Lord,
seeing that you accepted the word under much tribulation with joy of Holy Spirit,
so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and in a cave.
So what added to the depth of Paul's love?
What these dear brothers had gone through with unwavering loyalty and faith and joy?
He loved them even more so.
So what is the lesson for us?
Remember what the insight book said?
Godly love is not a quality that one has without knowing why,
and without knowledge of God, a part from meditation,
and including appreciation, love can exist.
So how can knowledge of our brothers help us to meditate,
build appreciation, and deepen love?
Well, we can think about what they may have gone through when they came into the truth,
or growing up in the truth.
Did this young person grow up in a dysfunctional family?
Did they learn the truth as a teenager and their parents opposed them bitterly?
Did they learn it as an adult and had to get rid of all sorts of bad association and filthy habits,
and addictions, and yet here all of those folks are,
in the truth, having come so far and staying faithful.
When we were, if you that, and we meditate on that,
it makes them more lovable.
And when we love them that much and our appreciation is enhanced,
it affects our patients with them, our compassion, our empathy.
We understand why they say what they say sometimes.
Why do they act the way they do sometimes?
That knowledge and appreciation helps us to love them even more.
Now, we noticed the apostle Paul expressed his love to the Thessalonians in a variety of ways,
but one way was he told them that he loved them.
And in doing so, Paul was following the example of Jehovah.
Remember, at Jesus' baptism in 29 CE, Jesus heard his own Father's voice, tell him,
you are my son, the beloved.
And in the year 32 CE,
Jesus heard his Father's voice say to him at the transfiguration,
this is my son, the beloved, whom I have approved, listened to him.
Now, there's no question that when Jesus was going through his earthly ministry,
he loved his Father. That was his greatest motivation.
But a greater motivation to him,
a key factor in his not tiring out through all the trials he went through was the fact that he knew
his Father loved him. Just notice these quotes from the Gospel of John.
Jesus is speaking. John 3.35, the Father loves the Son.
John 5.20, for the Father has affection for the Son.
John 59, just as the Father has loved me, so I have loved you.
So it is a good thing when we have these feelings of affection and love
that we express that to our brothers.
Have you ever been going through a difficult time and then a close friend, a fellow worker
comes along and says, just remember, we love you. That can be so encouraging.
It was encouraging to Jesus to hear his Father say that.
And besides just saying that, what else did the Apostle Paul do?
Let's go to First Thessalonians, chapter 2, and let's look at verses 11 and 12.
Now, this is beyond just saying, I love you.
There's a sacrifice involved here, verse 11.
You all know that we kept exhorting and consoling you and bearing witness to each one of you,
just as a Father does His children, so that you would go on walking
worthy of God who is calling you to His kingdom and glory.
Paul uses the illustration of a loving, caring Father who not only tells His children,
I love you, but what else does He do? He exhorts them.
What does that mean? Basically, the Greek meaning is to encourage.
It means to impress upon someone the importance of them continuing on on a good course
that would lead to blessings from Jehovah. That takes effort, time, and then Paul also
consoled them. What does that mean? Comfort, sooth, calm, reassure. A loving Father does all that.
And we can imitate Jehovah, Paul, by doing the same thing with our brothers. We love them.
So we put forth the effort to exhort, to console. Now, all of this is going to take effort,
isn't it? Paul said that he gave of him very self. He gave everything he had.
In a similar thought, at 2 Corinthians 1215, he said,
For my part, I will most gladly spend and be completely spent for you.
A commenter quoted in our magazines, a Bible scholar said, in effect,
Paul was saying this,
I am willing to spend my strength and time and life and all that I have for your welfare as a
father, cheerfully does for his children. And he was going to do it at times to the point of
exhaustion and being totally worn out. But what was the spirit behind that? Be grudging it,
complaining, most gladly, Paul did that. The Jerusalem Bible says, perfectly willing to do so.
So what did we learn in our discussion this morning? The Apostle Paul knew exactly why he loved
the Thessalonians. Jehovah loved them. There was a bond, and he loved them for their endurance,
and he wanted to help them. And he did everything he could by his actions, and what he said to them,
to prove to them that he loved them. So may we be determined to love our brothers and sisters,
to express love by what we say, but also by what we do, and to do it so in a perfectly
willing to do so attitude.